Mathfinance 2021

Title: Copula-based hedging of cryptocurrencies

Abstract: We investigate different methods of hedging cryptocurrencies with Bitcoin futures.  The introduction of derivatives on Bitcoin, in particular the launch of futures contracts on CME in December 2017, allows for hedging exposures on Bitcoin and crytpocurrency indices, such as the CRIX. Because of volatility swings and jumps in Bitcoin prices, the traditional variance-based approach to obtain hedge ratios is infeasible.  The approach is therefore generalised  to various risk measures, such as value-at-risk, expected shortfall and spectral risk measures, and to different copulas for capturing the dependency between spot and future returns, such as the Gaussian, Student-t, NIG and Archimedean copulas. Various measures of hedge effectiveness in out-of-sample tests give insights in the practice of hedging Bitcoin and the CRIX.
This is joint work with Meng-Jou Lu (National University of Singapore) and Francis Liu (Berlin School of Economics and Law, Humboldt University Berlin).


Bio: Natalie Packham is Professor of Mathematics and Statistics at Berlin School of Economics and Law and Principal Researcher within the International Research Training Group “High Dimensional Nonstationary Time Series” (IRTG 1792) at Humboldt University Berlin. Natalie has several years of industry experience as a front office software engineer at an investment bank, and is frequently involved in industry-related research and consulting projects. Her research expertise includes Mathematical Finance, Financial Risk Management and Computational Finance, and her academic work has been published in Mathematical Finance, Finance & Stochastics, Quantitative Finance, Journal of Applied Probability and many other academic journals. She is associate editor of “Methodology and Computing in Applied Probability” and "Digital Finance" and co-chair of the GARP Research Fellowship Advisory Board. Natalie holds an M.Sc. in Computer Science from the University of Bonn, a Master’s degree in Banking & Finance from Frankfurt School, and a Ph.D. in Quantitative Finance from Frankfurt School.
